what's up everybody welcome to another
episode of 100 days of SEO my name is
Brendan huffard I help SEO clients
ranging from 90 million dollar
venture-backed startups to local window
washers and real estate agents and
interior designers and I'm so excited
because today I'm gonna share with you
the proposal tactics that I used when I
was getting started in SEO it's not what
we use at click Studios anymore because
we usually work a lot contain them with
web design and web development and
everything but I'm gonna show you
exactly what I use from a proposal
standpoint to lay in my first big SEO
clients we're gonna go inside right here
that's it's my house we're gonna go
inside the house we're gonna hop on my
laptop I'm gonna explain all that let's
do it what's up everybody Brendan
Hufford here we're in my computer now
I'm gonna share with you a template that
closes 60 to 90% of new SEO clients now
you don't even have to have any current
SEO clients to use this template it's
perfect for newbies for that reason but
also if you've been using the same old
tired templates to do pitches forever
and you are ready you know maybe you
have some clients maybe you have a good
thing going and your consultancy your
agency and you got a great track record
but you're looking to close bigger
Enterprise bigger SAS clients this is
perfect for you it's also perfect and
we'll get to this at the end for people
who are bad at math like me so with that
said make sure you stick around to the
end I've got something pretty awesome
for you here's what it is today we're
gonna talk about why a proposal like
this works why it's scary effective what
it taps into inside of humans that makes
it so effective where I learned to
create such a good proposal how I use it
to get more SEO clients and the bonus at
the end is like how to really close a
lead a proposal is wonderful but we all
get to that awkward phase where you say
how much money it's gonna cost and they
sit there and look at you and you're not
sure what to do we're gonna take care of
all of that today I already know I did a
brief intro but my name is Brendan
huffard I'm the founder of SEO for the
rest of us in a hundred days of SEO I am
the SEO director it clicks studios the
best design agency on the planet I get
to do all sorts of amazing SEO stuff
there for a design clients but also for
strictly SEO clients and I am a former
teacher I spent 10 years in the
classroom I was an assistant principal I
have three little boys shoutout to all
the dads out there shoutout to all the
teachers out there but trust me I am as
regular as it can get I am just like you
if I can do this so can you first tip we
got to start here be a professional go
on canva if you don't know how to design
I don't know how to design if you think
these slides look good it's just canva
canva.com design sells your work it
sells more than anything else more than
any sort of informations or spreadsheets
or salesmanship you have to have well
design proposal templates like it has to
be solid so let's start there and get
grounded there now I want to start there
but no one introduced you to Andy Raskin
Andy is a messaging and positioning
expert responsible for crafting some of
the most successful sales marketing and
investor pitches in Silicon Valley now I
didn't describe Andy that way somebody
way smarter than me and way above my
paygrade did and here's what Andy
figured out Andy
talks a lot about this thing called the
hero's journey you'll recognize the
hero's journey it's president everything
that you love Harry Potter
Star Wars The Matrix spider-man Lion
King Lord of the Rings but also Indiana
Jones Finding Nemo inside out Back to
the Future every famous movie and most
of the famous books out there including
The Hunger Games like everything follows
the same hero's journey and when you can
figure out how to leverage that in your
presentations and in your proposal
templates you are going to win here's
what I mean a lot of people don't give
credit where it's due the hero's journey
I would credit definitely did Joseph
Campbell he put together a couple ideas
but he wrote this book back in the 40s
called hero with a thousand faces where
he figured out that all the stories
around the whole world followed this
whole same template called a monomyth
where you have this hero gets a call to
adventure they meet a mentor they go
from their normal world into this
unknown world to have trials and
tribulations something happens and
they're reborn as something else they
have a revelation there's more changes
they get
gift and they returned changed to share
what they know with everybody else
you'll recognize this as neo as Frodo as
Harry Potter as Marty McFly in Back to
the Future it's all the same stuff and
the more we can tap into this this is
something that's hardwired into us as
humans the more we can tap into this the
better so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
walk you through this is a breakdown
that Andy did of a sales deck and I'm
gonna help you connect this don't worry
but we have to understand the why before
we get to the what so I'm gonna walk you
through this sales deck from Zora Zora
is a subscription payment processing
company and Andy said this was the best
sales deck he had ever seen so the first
thing that they do in this sales deck
and I'm gonna map each of this to the
here each step of this to the hero's
journey here the first thing they do is
they they kind of just give this big
goal like they're people who would work
with them their ideal clients their
ideal customers want to turn their
customers into subscribers and what
they're doing here is they're crossing
the threshold the normal world is the
world of customers the unknown world is
the world of subscribers next what they
do is they put on here just this is kind
of like the five what Andy talks about
the five and I'll summarize this again
so don't worry make sure you take notes
while you're watching this but don't
worry I have this all on some slides at
the end make sure you watch until the
end the first thing that Andy talks
about is you have to name a big relevant
change in the world
don't kick off like every other SEO
proposal deck I've ever seen where it's
like here's an executive summary and
here's us and here's how great we are
and blah blah blah that's a huge mistake
don't talk about where your offices are
in the awards you've won none of that
just make sure you talk about a big
relevant change in the world that
applies to your business SEO and your
client now does it well this worked for
everything else would this work for dev
proposals and writing proposals and
content marketers and design proposals
of course of course but those will be
separate videos I guess like let's let's
keep this focus on SEO Brendon
the next thing that they do is they
Chronicle an outline of the change now
I've put together two slides there's two
different slides they've used in the
past this is the first one where they
talk about how we're living in a
different era now and it chronicles that
change into a subscription economy
here's the second version of it if you
notice the subtle important difference
what most pitch advice tells you which
is to start with the problem but when
you assert that they have a problem
you're gonna put them on the defensive
Andy says they might be unaware of the
problem or admitting that they're
suffering from a problem so let's look
at the difference between these two the
first one says we are living in a
different era it puts us all together
and then the next one says a shift from
products to relationships they're really
doubling down the second version is the
one they use officially now it's the
updated version they're really talking
about this change right instead of
saying we're all living through this
it's like look this shift has happened
they talk about the way how this change
is permanent how it's not gonna go back
this is not a fad and what they're doing
here is they're going from crossing the
threshold into the trials and into the
failure they are positioning themselves
as the guide for the person they're
pitching the person they're selling we
will guide you through this change look
we've already seen it we've mapped it
all out we know what's going on they
talked about this global phenomenon
that's happened I love the statistics
here
I love how grounded it is in just like
facts and numbers and you can't disagree
with it it's right there in front of you
they talk about how everybody's doing
this in education and cloud services
media healthcare communication everybody
is shifting to this new business model
and what they're doing here is they're
talking about the growth and the new
skills you're gonna need to succeed and
I love this next part the best companies
have reinvented themselves away from
products if you're still on products you
are going to die and what they're
establishing here is that in the future
this is big point number to show that
there will be winners and losers based
on this change
look at that 1955 average life
expectancy of a company with 75 years
2015 the average life expectancy is 15
years for a fortune 500 company that's
incredible
all prospects suffer from what
economists call loss aversion Andy says
and like they just want to avoid a
possible loss by sticking to the status
quo they don't want to risk something to
gain change is scary but we have to show
them that this mass extinction is
happening if they are not willing to
change now
we want to talk to them about like
that's gonna you know it's gonna beg the
next question well who's winning here
who's losing what's going on they'd like
to cite General Electric has moved from
light bulbs to digital services they
talk about IBM and Watson and machine
learning and AI they talk about Unilever
and buying Dollar Shave Club for a
billion dollars they'll talk about
Amazon Google Apple Facebook like these
are the relationship makers now even
Salesforce in there uber and Spotify box
air B&B they talk about the new
disruptors are moving into this model as
well now what is the common thread
between all of them what are they doing
they're bringing you into the revelation
they've gone through that guided you
through the death and the rebirth that's
happening they want you to see the
changes that you need to make again I
have two slides here for this these
slides do number three which is called
teasing the promised land this is the
point now where you want to it's so easy
to just slide into and here's how SEO
solves your problems right we've we've
teased the problem we've told you but
we're not really teasing it
we're teasing the promised land we're
teasing if we go back one slide
we're teasing this return of change like
you've come back changed from this
things are different now the two slides
now again like let's look at the
difference because again you want to
dive into your services you've got to
resist that if you introduce your stuff
too soon they won't have the deepest
level of context now these slides don't
have to take ten minutes but look at the
difference between these two slides
customers now expect us the subscription
experience too they understand we want
the subscription experience big context
change this slide is focused
customers this slide is focused on the
companies who are winning the people
we're pitching want to ally themselves
they want to see themselves we can talk
about customers all day but we also have
to talk about them the original side was
on customers this this sides focus is on
the companies that are winning in this
new era they also walk through like how
this is a new way of thinking the old
way versus the new way they start to
move into this this changes everything
again old ways to new ways and what
they're doing is positioning themselves
as giving the gift we are the product
our product is a gift to you to
overcoming the obstacles for the
promised land getting the gift could be
Harry Potter getting Gryffindor's sword
Luke Skywalker getting his father's
lightsaber like all of these different
like learning to uses the father's
lights or like all of these different
things if it's not clear by now the most
successful sales decks follow this same
narrative structure that I've been kind
of outlining right there there Frodo
they are the hero here you are Gandalf
right you are Hagrid or Dumbledore I
don't know whoever the mentor is there
but my my point is like they are
Cinderella the prospect of Cinderella
you're the fairy godmother trying to
cast these spells to get them to the
ball that's how we have to position
ourselves here we are not the hero they
are now these gifts in the terms of the
Zora duck is they talk about again what
are we doing here what are we're beyond
a CRM we're gonna say exactly why we
built Zora here's what here's our
platform here's what we offer etc this
is the part of the pitch where you get
into your offer and now they return
change now we got a you know really
double down on this Wow have we returned
change will these other people have this
is where we get into social proof again
I'll summarize all of this in a second
don't worry I'm going to talk to you
here in just a minute about how to close
these clients because this doesn't get
you to the close this is just sales this
is just getting or than the point of
having the sales conversation but they
walk through like here's a testimonial
here's a testimonial here's a
testimonial boom that's what we got now
it's time for you to start to take over
it's time for you to start your hero's
journey as we've walked you through
all of this now like I said if you just
hang on a second I'm gonna show you
exactly an exact like pay or exact slide
of how to close these people because
you're asking yourself Brendan what the
f does this have to do with SEO clients
I want to tell you this stuff this way
of presenting this hero's journey and
following the sales deck a model is
dangerous it is dangerous and here's
what I mean if you use this on people
that are not prepared to pay you they
will become a pain in the butt I tell
you this with all honesty if you use
this on people they will want to end
they don't have the money to hire you
they will ask you a million questions
they want to work with you but if they
don't if this is not under the guise if
you're just doing this to be helpful
don't use this use this on people use
this with people not on people with
people that you want to sell to they
have to know they're being sold if you
use this unwittingly on somebody just
trying to be helpful they will not
understand why they so deeply want to
work with you and they'll never in their
head connect I should pay this person
they will just become a burden of
endless questions and everything else
the thing is like this is extremely
powerful here's what makes it even more
powerful here's what takes it up a level
I like to combine it with Russell
Brunson's
perfect webinar he doesn't intro some
open loops he talks about these three
secrets and then he talks about the
offer stack now let me run you through
these the three secrets we're gonna talk
about here in a second the offer stack
just looks like all the things we are
offering it's not just this it's this
and that and that and that so we want to
make sure that we stack all of our
offers together so for SEO you're not
just providing them with SEO you're not
just writing them with content just with
links outline every part of that you're
gonna optimize their analytics you're
gonna hook up Google tag manager to make
sure everything's tracking correctly
you're gonna make sure that we're able
to show an ROI directly from SEO it's
all of these things and stack all of
those things together to help the
clothes now in theory how does this look
right we're gonna follow and feel free
to screenshot this or write these down
they're also in the description below if
you want to copy and paste them in
theory this is following the five most
important parts of a sails deck
narrative right the big relevant change
show there will be winners and losers
tease the promised land give them the
magic gifts in the form of your product
and then present the evidence that you
can make the story come true for them
mix it with an equal parts hero's
journey a little blend into the perfect
webinar and then close with the offer
stack now that's great theory Brendon
but like there's nothing to take action
on now here's what it looks like this is
an intimidating slide but let me run
through it this is exactly how I'd run
through slide by slide by slide this can
be 11 slides that's it it doesn't have
to be more than that just because I have
like 50 something slides to explain it
doesn't mean that this can be 10 slides
right and they can be 10 slides that you
reuse over and over again we want to
name the big end goal for the client now
this should come from a paid audit
you've already done nobody should be
getting sold to without doing a pay to
audit first if you're just getting
started by all means I've got a video on
how to get your first ten clients do
audits for free to get people to be your
clients for free to do testimonials and
put together case studies but eventually
you should not be doing any audits first
of all you shouldn't be giving anybody a
price before you've done an audit and
you have to do the audit in order to
know what their goal is with those
things number two position yourself is
the expert guide to take them through
this journey share a little bit just
briefly of how you're the guide how
you're obi-wan kenobe a qualifications
or awards remember they're the hero in
this story not you you have to focus on
your qualifications Awards only and how
it helps guide them then name the big
relevant change in the world track that
change over time I love keeping the
relevant change to something in their
industry and how things are changing
whether it's how they get leads or how
they close sales or how people decide
who to work with things like that track
that change over time explain why the
change is permanent I love statistics
here you can find tons of public
statistics number six like Everett given
the feeling that like everybody's doing
this show the people who are winning
show who the bit the winners are show
who the losers are tease that promised
land number eight summarize what those
businesses are doing right I love doing
a little bit of
competitive analysis here number nine
start tossing out those magic gifts what
SEO services are you gonna offer and
recommend to them I love a six month
strategy here just that you can be
boilerplate but just something to show
like I've thought this through and
here's what I think we could do if we
work together
number ten present evidence you can make
it come true again a testimonial a case
study we increase leads by this
percentage we increase sales by this
percentage get to the bottom line and
then hit the close now when you get to
the close
here's what happens you say alright
here's my price and it's hello darkness
my old friend it's just silence you say
the price the client wants to just do
this
they're like SIA and you're just praying
that like they say yes and you can make
it rain but it really doesn't have to be
that way here's what we're gonna address
in one slide one easy Google sheet we're
going to dress and this again comes from
Russell Brunson if you've not bought his
book expert secrets you definitely
should he does a lot of like he's very
over the top with his sales but this is
one of the best books ever in business
he walks through there's three real
objections three false beliefs number
one is the vehicle in our case this
would be SEO is the vehicle and they
would be saying I don't know how SEO
will work for me and we have to address
that
number two the internal beliefs I'm sold
on SEO at this point they're sold on
number one we have to do them in this
order too but there's something about me
that makes me think this wouldn't work
I'm not technical I'm not creative we
have to address that too I'm going to
show you how here in just a second and
then number three I'm not sure this will
work for my business right I'm not they
people love to say that they love to
like pursue SEO and then be like wow I'm
not really sure people are googling this
oh maybe not and that might be true and
I'm gonna give you an example of that in
a second but let's take a look at this
so this is a simple google sheet what i
put together here is on the left is some
keywords the monthly average searches
the click percentage this is where you
know you're dealing with a real SEO if
they put the click percentage in there
these are just pulled from HR F's
they're pretty simple but the idea that
a hundred percent of the traffic is
going to
Organic clicks and you can use the same
like 35:25 whatever it's not gonna work
sometimes less than 30% of the clicks
are going to organic right so we want to
make sure you put the click percentage
in there tell them that this is you
positioning yourself as the expert guide
show the cost per click show what the
monthly value is put together this total
addressable market now it's a great
article by Nick Eubanks from the future
its ft f dot agency is their website go
check it out total addressable market
from the future Google it I also try to
put a link in the description below to
that article but put together the total
addressable market this could be
thousands of keywords right average your
traffic capture percentage estimate a
track the traffic per month here and
bring my my mouse over here the cursor
traffic per month is simply you know
estimated ranking two to three let's
just be so conservative with this let's
say they have a five percent lead
conversion on their website super
conservative they'll get end up based on
this these kind of rough numbers these
are just for like local shredding I
didn't even check a lot of these
keywords on the left free shredding
probably shouldn't be something we rank
for but it is an opportunity could
result in around 100 that's why we're
conservative with this right that's why
we're conservative with 17% conservative
with 5% 196 leads per month the client
said they could you know convert 40
percent of those cool that's 78 new
sales per month I know that the average
revenue provided by the client per
closed for a shredding client is $500
great so that means a lead is worth $200
again that's based on average revenue
divided by the client conversion rate a
lead is worth 200 bucks now if I do my
job what does that mean in terms of
revenue for them that means thirty nine
thousand one hundred forty three dollars
per month now I'm gonna Jack this up to
a year cuz I want them to see the big
picture of us working together for more
than just the initial six month
engagement or what or more than just
month to month in a year this could mean
a half million dollars in revenue right
that could be very significant for them
now what's the ROI for them now an
investment I love to take a number of
anywhere from five to ten percent of
revenue again that's very it makes it
just kind of a no-lose deal this is I'm
trying to remember who I learned this
from I'll figure
I'll link it in the description below
but this is just I love the idea of like
look we're just gonna work on a
percentage we think this is enough money
to actually do the work but we want to
give you a 2,000 percent ROI right and
the break-even here you don't have to
put this quote in here this is a
reminder for me to tell you something
but the the break-even point is for if I
can get them for new sales per month of
the the 78 they breakeven on me I my
services are free after after that right
now can we get four of 78 great but this
gives me a good benchmark a brand we
only closed five this month cool you're
in the positive you're in that you're
you know we were in the green month too
while we close Whelan close we close -
and month one and four and month two
great we broke even by month two awesome
now let's see where we go the this is
the question of I love asking cleanses
if all this did was get you four new
clients if all this did was get you four
new sales per month would this be worth
it and the answer for them should be
absolutely because once a hire is once
they're gonna hire us again the next
time they need us they know that the you
know the average revenue from an initial
client like that may not be lifetime
value a lot of people don't have
lifetime value numbers and maybe some
SAS companies do enterprise companies do
but then you can talk to them about that
but even just average revenue we know
this is an easy win for them now this
doesn't always work right here's another
client I kind of took out the keywords
you wouldn't know exactly what they did
but if you look at this the numbers
don't make sense they're kind of a local
client here's the best we can do our
minimum engagement is $2,000 we're not
even going to consider working with
somebody under that I think that's still
really low but like here's what you know
we're really only conservative again
right but like they they sell tickets to
their events and we could only probably
bring them eighteen new sales per month
and at ninety dollars a piece that meant
monthly revenue is gonna be about
sixteen hundred bucks here Li revenue
20k but at two thousand we're less than
a hundred percent ROI that that doesn't
make sense we told them this is not the
best use of your money right now here's
some other options we should not take
their money knowing that they we cannot
get them at good ROI we should not lower
our
now if you're just starting out you
desperately need clients do it for 500
bucks do it for a grand my first like 10
clients were all $500 a month where I
think I would I mean I was ready to take
lines for $200 a month and be grateful
for it so I was just getting started I
had no business trying to close at
$10,000 a month client so my point is
we're addressing these three core
beliefs here if we jump back really
quickly the the vehicle the internal and
the external the vehicle will se are
people googling this will SEO work yes
sometimes I even like to take their
competitors keywords and show here's
what they are winning with what
definitely was working for them right
then we have the internal in the bottom
right the number two will this work for
me now I'm I'm coming in as a partner
here I'm your trusted partner I'm your
guide to walk you through all of this
they trust you by this point we've gone
through the hero's journey we've gone
through the the five steps of the sales
process right we understand all these
things and they trust you and now when
we show them the ROI they know this will
work for their business and you know the
external belief here I'm not sorry the
internal belief was I'm not sold on SEO
for whatever reason we know we're a good
partner the external belief will this
actually work for my business
sure here's some real actual revenue
numbers now I only have two slides left
now I want to share with you something
what do you say if a client says no
you've done everything right and they go
they say no what do you say I love this
line I learned it from Joel clucky I'm
gonna link up his website and his sales
training below he's an amazing
copywriter he says to them maybe
somebody Moore jr. would be a better fit
maybe I'm a little bit I love this he
says this too I didn't put on the slide
maybe I'm a little bit overkill for you
maybe you want somebody more junior well
nobody wants anybody Junior I don't want
to junior SEO so maybe all of a sudden
I'll find some budget for this person
here's what I want you to do if this
video is helpful hopefully you've taken
a ton of notes we got a bunch of stuff
in the description below but I want you
to comment comment below what is your
biggest personal struggle with finding
pitching or closing s
clients if you comment below I swear to
God I will answer every single comment
at some of my videos I only answer the
first 10 because it's so much work to
like dive into somebody's website or
help them with keyword research or
search intent I'm gonna answer every
single comment that this video gets
because I want this to absolutely blow
up I think this video is easily worth
you know five hundred dollars it's a
five hundred dollar training put into a
video I know it's going to help you so I
want you to do two things if you're
struggling by all means but here's what
I would love if this helps you actually
close the client and you figure out like
you use this and implement it come back
comment below just say like I just
closed my client with this Wow
love it etc let me know give me some
feedback give me a little bit of love on
this video let me know it was helpful
for you looking forward to talking to
you in the comments I've been Brendon
huffard don't forget to work hard be
nice people and don't get too lost
trying to create something that matters
and of course always be closing